hi my name is Jesse myson today we're
going to start a series of short videos
talking about basic yoga poses and their
alignment for safety and getting the
most out of your yoga practice so we're
going to start off with one of the most
important
poses that I can think of
Plank and when I'm in class and I ask
students what do they want to work on
invariably they always say to me they
want to work on their core whether it's
men or women so one of the best core
strengtheners is Plank and it's an
overall body strengthener so let's get
started and we're going to start off
with plank on knees your most basic
Plank and it's a great place to start
whether you're a new Yogi or an advanced
Yogi just so that you can get perfect
alignment so that when you do come to
full PL
you feel strength stability and comfort
in the pose so the most important thing
is your foundation and your foundation
and plank is your hands your knees your
shins and the tops of your feet so let's
start off with the hands your hands are
going to be shoulder width apart fingers
spread really wide and your wrists are
going to be under your shoulders if that
doesn't feel comfortable to you then you
can go go wider than shoulder width you
can even move your hands a little
forward so your wrists are a little in
front of your shoulders I prefer having
my wrists right under my shoulders but a
little wider and I like to have my
fingers turned out because I have a
tight upper back and then from here
spread the fingers really wide and press
into all 10 Knuckles and then from there
I want you to get the rest of your
foundation set up the tops of the knees
they hips withth apart and your shins
and the tops of the feet are rooting
into the mat all 10 toes root in
including the pinky toe then you want to
make sure that your body is in that
board like position plank you don't want
to have the bottom sticking up nor do
you want to Sag the hip points down
that's too much on your low back so the
way to ensure that you have perfect
alignment is to create a strong front
body that's pulling away from the mat so
pull the navl in pull the front ribs
into the back body and lengthen the
tailbone to the backs of the knees your
gaze is slightly in front of your mat so
that your cervical spine is long and
then you're long from the crown of the
head to the backs of the knees that
plank board like quality then
energetically pull back on the hands to
lengthen the heart forward then pull the
navl in again and lengthen the tailbone
down towards the backs of the knees so
this is your strong plank on knees the
next pose that we will come to is full
Plank and we'll come to that tutorial
tomorrow thanks